[DOCS-5448] Bryce/azure programmatic guide (#17496)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/azure-native-programmatic-management.md

---
title: Azure Native Integration Programmatic Management Guide
kind: guide
description: "Steps for programmatically managing the Azure Native integration with Datadog"
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/azure/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Azure Integration"
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/guide/azure-portal"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Managing the Azure Native Integration"
---

## Overview

{{% site-region region="us3" %}}

> The Azure Native integration uses the Datadog resource to streamline management and data collection for your Azure environment. Datadog recommends using this method when possible. This is possible through creation of the [azurerm_datadog_monitor][3] resource and assignment of the [Monitoring Reader role][4] in Azure to link your Azure subscription(s) to your Datadog organization. This replaces the App Registration credential process for metric collection and Event Hub setup for log forwarding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Native integration uses the Datadog resource to streamline management and data collection for your Azure environment. Datadog recommends using this method when possible. This method involves creating the [azurerm_datadog_monitor][3] resource and assigning the [Monitoring Reader role][4] in Azure to link your Azure subscription(s) to your Datadog organization. This replaces the App Registration credential process for metric collection and Event Hub setup for log forwarding.
```

{{< code-block lang="hcl" filename="" disable_copy="false" collapsible="false" >}}

data "azurerm_subscription" "primary" {}

data "azurerm_role_definition" "monitoring_reader" {
  name = "Monitoring Reader"
}

resource "azurerm_role_assignment" "example" {
  scope              = data.azurerm_subscription.primary.id
  role_definition_id = data.azurerm_role_definition.monitoring_reader.role_definition_id
  principal_id       = azurerm_datadog_monitor.example.identity.0.principal_id
}

{{< /code-block >}}

2. Run `terraform apply`.

### Log collection

Once the Datadog resource is set up in your Azure account, configure log collection through the Azure Portal. See [Configure metrics and logs][5] in the Azure documentation for more information.

[2]: /integrations/guide/azure-portal/
[3]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/datadog_monitors
[4]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/datadog_monitors#role-assignment
[5]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/partner-solutions/datadog/create#configure-metrics-and-logs
{{% /site-region %}}

{{% site-region region="us,us5,eu,ap1,gov" %}}

> The Azure Native integration is only supported for users of Datadog's US3 site. If you're using a different [Datadog site][3], see the standard [Azure Programmatic Management guide][1]. If you're using the Datadog US3 site, [change the site selector][2] on the right of this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Native integration is only supported for users of Datadog's US3 site. If you're using a different [Datadog site][1], see the standard [Azure Programmatic Management guide][2]. If you're using the Datadog US3 site, [change the site selector][3] on the right of this page.
```

Reviewer: I don't think this impacts the functionality of the links, but figured it wouldn't hurt to make them consecutive :)

> [1]: /integrations/guide/azure-programmatic-management/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /getting_started/site/
```

> [2]: ?site=us3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[2]: /integrations/guide/azure-programmatic-management/
```

> [3]: /getting_started/site/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[3]: ?site=us3
```
